**Compiled by Aedin Culhane, 47 Glen Ave, Newton, MA**

The William L Church house is the Aloha Bungalow
================================================

The historical record of 145 Warren St, calls it the William L Church
house in the national register and says this single-story single-family
bungalow was built in 1916.

The historical commission review on [[April
2018]{.underline}](http://www.newtonma.gov/civica/filebank/blobdload.asp?BlobID=90182)
(before the enclosed materials were available) noted "This house was
recognized as a well-detailed example of a Craftsman-Style bungalow. The
property was found to be unique due to its one-story height, unlike many
bungalows in the city, and its adherence to the tenets of the style such
as a low-pitched hip roof with tiles, rusticated porch entrance with
brick piers and heavy carved struts. An alteration to the bay window was
cited in the nomination but was also mentioned as an easily restored
element. Though there have been changes to siding and elements of what
was once a full porch, the building is still listed on the National
Register. Staff recommended this property preferably preserved for
architectural integrity"

The house is a unique part of our culture due to its interior
architecture and the woman for which it was built. This house is an
integral part of early twentieth century Newton women's history, early
radio and musical recording and oppression of careers of female
professional in the years preceding the marriage bar.

Whilst the historical record calls the house the William L Church house,
because it was owned by William L Church. Census records don't indicate
that he lived there, instead his niece Dai

Buell and her husband Audley Earl Greenridge and her mother lived in the
house that William L Church that was specially designed for her. There
are suggestions in several article that she was intimately involved in
the design, architecture and style of the house.

### Deeds/Records of ownership of 145 Warren St

Book 5700- page 138. PROBATE of will of William L Church (Died Dec
10th1932) states that Dai Buell and her husband Audley Earl Greenridge
are tenants of 145 Warren St. It also conveys 145 Warren to Dai Buell
and her husband Audley Earl Greenridge.

Book 6788- page 9 DEED. Sale of 145 Warren by Audley Earl Greenridge
(widower) to Dearborn. It mentions that 145 Warren was deeded to Dai
Buell and her husband Audley Earl Greenridge in the will of William L
Church (Book 5700- page 138) and ALSO states that Dai Buell died a
resident of Newton July 9th, 1939.

Book 7389- page 581 DEED .Feinberg purchase of 145 Warren from Dearborn
mentioned previous deed held by Audley Earl Greenridge (Book 6788- page
9)

Architecture and design of 145 Warren, the Aloha Bungalow"
----------------------------------------------------------

![](media/image1.jpg){width="3.604861111111111in"
height="5.472222222222222in"}In Conte Neste House & Garden, 1918, Vol
33-34 page 41 (See Appendix) there is a picture of the house along with
exterior, images and an architectural drawing of 145 Warren. Several
interior images and highly detailed descriptions of the wall & floor
covering are available.

In that 1918 **Homes and Garden** feature entitled \"**A bungalow with a
real salon. The home of Miss Dai Buell, Pianist, At Newton Center,
Massachusetts, Designed by William L Church Esq\"**. It states the
\"plan is arranged around the music room which carries through to the
roof. " The front contained a music room that was structurally separate
to the rest of the house for acoustic integrity. The music room, with
comfortable seating for 150 guests was distinct from the sleeping space
in the rear. "A single hallway serves the bathroom and all the bedrooms,
making for practical living convenience and economy of space"

The music room was 27ft high. The height has been secured partly by
sinking the floor below the ground level. The walls, floors and ceilings
are insulated with **seaweed** resulting in winter warmth and summer
coolness and to ensure walls are perfectly acoustically deadened.\" The
full text of this and many other articles are provided at the end of
this research.

A photo of the interior of the house is featured in the **Boston Post**
(Sunday Jan 9^th^, 1921 \"**Double walls of studio make soundless music
room**") and states that \"Dai Buell, the well know Newton Center
pianist, has the distinction of having in her home **the only known
\"soundless music room\" in existence.** It says that the music room is
so ingeniously constructed "that one can play on the piano and still not
be heard in other portions of the house. Here the artist can work
through the still hours of the night without disturbing the sleep of
other members of the household. The music room is a room within a room,
the double **walls being packed with seaweed**, making the piano
absolutely inaudible in other portions of the house." This article
provides more in depth description of the interior design of the house,
describing the **large triangular windows of amber cathedral glass in
the gables** at either end of the balcony of the 27ft music room.  It
even described that the classical simplicity carried to the columns
instead of the draperies insures acoustical perfection.

![https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/2SMY0e-CaCX0gLNxb81MteyVBfVG-4a4KCrM3HfhZKz0ebMdRhwJApRZaPP6jOdSA66k462\_CWZOtYnzEwduQ-m9xQE3XUZLGV4WR4SEHk2r7ZPe2cW9gwnMiIEPY0qPfl5c6RnnIkM](media/image2.jpeg){width="6.5in"
height="4.935416666666667in"}

Musical Courier, Volume 75 Sep 13th 1917 described the Aloha Bungalow
and its performance space in detail.

Dai's Buell's influence on her Uncle's design is apparent in the highly
detailed description of the exterior and interior of the home in the
Musical Courier, 1917. Her "charming one story bungalow of the Denver
type the exterior walls of which are of moss green shingles and the roof
of red terra cotta tile "was designed to stimulate the "abundantly
endowed Dai Buell with temperament". The exterior trim was "a delicate
primrose color equivalent to a light cream carrying the faintest
suggestion of green" which was offset against "the columns of the porch
as well as the pier carrying the lawn light are of dark tapestry brick".
It described the sunken floor in addition to the raised ceiling of the
27 ft high central music room was is "debarred" from the rest of the
house. The covered gallery 14 ft above of the floor of the music room
forms a miniature art gallery.

Upon entering the house, "The living room and the dining room are on the
right and left respectively and these were defined with columns. The
living room and foyer were finished in mahogany whereas the dining room
was finished in a "rich warm natural tone of gum wood". By contrast the
music room was set apart "as a specialist formal room somewhat classic
in its severity with woodwork in chestnut and the high dado is in canvas
with the panels set out in beading ". For acoustics, the plaster was
rough and the entire room was finished in a cool smoky pearl with which
the oxidized silver lighting brackets beautifully."

The house designed for weekly concerts and recitals could accommodate
150 guests in "comfortable seating on the main floor without encroaching
on the music room and the low level of the piano enabled most of the
audience to the keyboard work of the artist at close range." This
article also described the double walling, as a room within a room and
that the walls were packed with seaweed as a soundproof material. The
walls themselves had no point of connection except at the floor and a
slight tie the level of the gallery such that piano was inaudible in
other portions of the house. A thick cork carpet whose color was a
neutral greenish gray was used to further insulate the sound.

The articles in [Musical Courier, 1917]{.underline}, [National Magazine
1917](https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=4NROAQAAMAAJ&pg=GBS.PA266),
[Homes and Garden 1918]{.underline}, and [Boston Post, 1921]{.underline}
all make references to same key design elements in the house which was
considered an engineering feat of its time;

> 1\) The house was custom designed for performance and piano recitals. It
> was a technical feat and it had the only acoustically designed "sound
> less" music room in existence.
>
> 2\) The music room is tall, with 27 feet, made possible by sinking the
> floor by 2' feet and is carried to the roof (full height of the house)
>
> 3\) The music room is central to front portions of the house, and held
> 150 guests in the 3 receptions rooms. Guests looked down onto the sunken
> performance space, and could intimately view Dai Buell's finger work on
> the piano.
>
> 4\) There are large triangular peak windows of amber cathedral glass in
> the gables. Below which, there is a balcony at 14' with minitaure art
> gallery
>
> 5\) The floors, ceiling and double walls were soundproofed and insulated
> with seaweed, that make the piano absolutely inaudible in other portions
> of the house. It also resulted in winter warmth and summer coolness. Use
> of a renewable sustainable material seaweed was innovative and has
> recently gained in popularity and a German company Neptutherm is selling
> seaweed Neptune ball insulation.

![](media/image3.png){width="5.704545056867891in"
height="3.4684383202099736in"}House Photos,National Magazine 1917.

The "Aloha Bungalow" was renowned recital/concert venue of pianist Dai Buell.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

![](media/image4.png){width="2.935416666666667in"
height="5.113194444444445in"}

The "Aloha Bungalow" was a well-known and highly regarded performance
venue. Dai Buell, her students and the MacDowell Club held weekly
recitals at the Aloha Bungalow.

The **International Who\'s who in Music and Musical Gazetteer 1918**
stated "At the **[Aloha Bungalow]{.underline}** she holds informal
concerts and those who have heard her play in her home declare that the
**environment, playing and player form an idyllic ensemble**".

**AMICA News Bulletin, Nov/Dec 1990**, Vol 26, Number 6, page 256 states
Dia Buelli, a well-known concert pianist, piano teacher was an active
member in the MacDowell Club and that her advanced piano students
presented in weekly recitals in her **Aloha bungalow in Newton Center**
for the benefit of the club. The Aloha bungalow was mentioned in
advertisements for **Steinway Pianos**\' in the **Boston Symphony
Orchestra** concert programs, Season 57,**1937-1938.**

Concerts at the ALOHA BUNGALOW were announced in the Newton Graphic,
Boston Globe etc.

On FRIDAY. MAY 1, 1925, the Newton Graphic announced that "**[The Aloha
bungalow, home of Miss Dai Buell. 145 Warren street. Newton Centre, is a
most popular place this week]{.underline}**. Miss Buell is holding a
series of musicals every afternoon ami several evenings for the benefit
of the McDowell Colony Endowment Fund. **It is a rare privilege to
attend one of these musicals** and to hear the gifted young musicians
play, as well as Miss Buell herself.

![](media/image5.tiff){width="2.45in" height="8.278472222222222in"}Annual May Day celebration at the Aloha Bungalow
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

She also started a "delightful annual custom" that became part of Newton
Center culture and was eagerly anticipated by the community annually.
Dai Buell hosted an annual May Day celebration at \"Aloha Bungalow, at
145 Warren street,\" (The newton graphic.1920, 1925 and 1931, also
articles in the Boston Globe).

"As is her annual custom Dai Buell, well-known concert pianist, whose
home, Aloha Bungalow, is at 145 Warren street, Newton Centre, will keep
open house to her friends this afternoon and evening. As a very young
girl she set apart this day for her friends and has maintained the
practice unless away on concert tours. A program of dancing and music
has been arranged lasting well into the evening. There will be
traditional folk dances, and a Maypole dance followed by several musical
selections by artists of distinction, such as Mrs. Abby Conley Rice and
MIbb Dorothy George, soloists. Mrs. Georges His, violinist, and Miss
Artiss de Volt, harpist. Several pianists, pupils of Dai Buell, will
intersperse the selections by these artists with contrasting numbers.
Miss Ethel deMllle as trumpeter will serve as announcer.

Mrs. Oliver H. P. Rodman is in charge of the tea table, assisted by
Baroness von Tippelskirch, and Mesdames Wm. H. Brennan. Reginald Heath,
Alexander Steinert. Frederick S. Whitwell, Wm. A. Gaston, Wm. C. Bray,
and Raymond Huntington. The Misses Violet James, Cornelia Wing, Muriel
Ames. Martha Peterschen, Margaret Reeves. Ethel deMille and Helen
Mumford will be at the punch bowl and the Misses Jane Cobb and Elizabeth
McKey will be the cigarette girls.

Girls with garlanded baskets assisting with serving will be the Misses
Jane and Peggy Burgess, Katherine Niles. Elizabeth Huntington. Anne
Kendall, Betty Cleverdon, Barbara Squier, Anne Stratton, Helen Dane,
Helen Boyd, Grace McLellan. Virginia Lichtner, Priscilla Young and
Lillian Taylor. General dancing will continue until late in the evening.
\"

Biography of Dai Buell (b 1898- d 1939).
========================================

Mrs. Dui Buell was "an internationally known concert pianist", born in
Fort Wayne, Indiana. Dai Buell grew up in humble surroundings and paid
her own way through music lessons. In the [National Magzine
1918 ](https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=4NROAQAAMAAJ&hl=en&pg=GBS.PA266) her
desire and drive to succeed in music was described as a**n \"example of
the value of confidence in self, combined with the grit and pluck to
back it up".** To purse a professional musical career she moved to
Boston to study piano with Carl Baerman, a former pupil of Franz Liszt,
taking her theoretical training at the New England Conservatory of
Music. Graduating from the conservatory the young pianist had further
study with Antionette Szumowska, one of the three students of Ignace
Paderewski.

Having arrive in Boston in 1916, to stay with her Uncle William L
Church, in Newton, she quickly gains fame and begun to play with the
Boston Symphony Orchestra. Her debut with the Boston Symphony Orchestra
was in 1916 and the New York City debut was in Aeolian Hall, January
13,1917. She also appeared several times with the Boston Symphony
Orchestra. People\'s Symphony, New York Philharmonic Strings; also in
recital throughout the United States and abroad. She was a member of the
MacDowell Club. Chromatic Club and the Mu Phi Epsilon.

She achieved global success, as a renowned classical pianist at a young
age, debuting in Boston, New York, Chicago and playing in most
distinguished concert halls in Europe. She gave concerts were in Europe
and the U.S. and during the years of 1923 to 1929 she researched the
history of music in Europe. The first piano recital by radio was in 1921
with Miss Buell as the pianist. She was active in the early stages of
the radio and urged musicians to meet the changes from concert stage
technique to that of radio. Her prediction was the radio would turn the
public to appreciation of the classics. While in France to study modern
French composition, Miss Buell was a frequent contributor to musical
magazines and gave recitals in France.

Dai Buell \"attained first rank in the United States and abroad as a
pianist\". She was a regular on radio and in the U.S. her recitals were
works of representative composers of different musical periods which she
discussed and analyzed. She was active in Chromatic Club. Her recital
advertisements listed the use of the Mason & Hamlin piano and her
recording for Ampico and Duo-Art Rolls. Of her Ampico rolls, the
Paradies\' \"Toccata in A\" (6329F) is an impressive revelation of the
personality capturing the message in this lovely piece first heard in
Italy three centuries ago. The Duo-Art rolls are masterpieces of her
playing the works of Liapounov and Bach. \" As an active member in the
MacDowell Club her advanced piano students were presented in weekly
recitals in her Aloha bungalow in Newton Center for the benefit of the
club.

Her sudden death was July 9, 1939 in her home 145 Warren St. Survivors
were her husband Audley Earl Greenidge and brother, R. Judson Buell of
Newtonville.

She was in Boston Symphony Orchestra Season Programmes

BSO\_57th Season\_1937\_1938,

BSO\_47th Season\_1927-1928

BSO\_44th Season\_1924\_1925

 Dai Buell was the first to perform a recital on Radio, TV. She championed recording and broadcasting of music 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dai Buell had a life-goal was to share classical music with **\"vast
audiences throughout America\".** She championed recording and
broadcasting of classical music.  She was active in the early stages of
the radio and urged musicians to meet the changes from concert stage
technique to that of radio. Her prediction was the radio would turn the
public to appreciation of the classics.

Many classical musicians at the time were ardently against these new
inventions.  She made a significant collection of [music
recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1I0levhVvy4) (Ampico and
Duo-Art, more links below) from the 1920s, 1930s, which are available on
youtube, soundcloud etc. She advocated that her peers record classical
music to share it with the public and she invited her peers to embrace
early radio and TV.  **She predicted that radio was essential for growth
and public appreciation of classical music.** She urged musicians to
meet the changes from concert stage technique to that of radio.  She has
gave free concerts to the public, including one in Brookline in which
between "1,000-1,500" people attended.

She was a early adopter of radio and saw its potential when few peers
did. **[In 1921 Nov 1, she made history when she performed the first
piano recital on the radio and made history again when she was the first
to a broadcast on early experimental TV (Oct 2^nd^
1931). ]{.underline}**

When she first performed on radio in 1921, it represented a seminal and
historic event in early radio. Few magazines recognized the importance
of radio, a handful of newspapers began providing some coverage of
individual events that seemed newsworthy. For example, in Boston, home
of pioneer station 1XE, both the Boston Globe and the Boston Traveler
offered several articles a week about interesting guests and programs on
the station, beginning in early 1921. Newspapers were uncertain about
what to call the new mass medium. The Boston newspapers occasionally
made use of the word "radio," as in a 2 November 1921 Boston Globe story
about famed classical pianist Dai Buell ("25,000 to Hear Piano By Radio
Tonight"). The Globe and the Traveler also alternated between using
"wireless telephone" and "radiophone," or sometimes used the words
"wireless station." And in the article about Dai Buell, the reporter was
even unsure how to refer to the receiving set, saying that "Only a few
\[listeners\] will actually see Miss Buell. The enormous majority of her
audience will simply take down their receivers, or whatever it is one
hears with on a wireless telephone"

She recognized the enormity and importance of this event. She envisioned
a future where the public would hear ***an artist play in their very own
music room***. The was a far-reaching, vision in 1921, when classical
concerts were performed live and only available in concert halls or
grand houses. She announced in an interview before the broadcast. "I am
really beginning my season on the evening of November 2 when I am going
to **play a program and give interpretative remarks over the radiophone
from the highest-powered station in New England**. The number of the
station is Amrad IXE in case you want to tune in. **[This recital will
be heard from coast to coast Canada to Texas and far out to
sea.]{.underline}** It is **[the first occasion]{.underline}** of its
sort on record. I believe all other efforts along this line having been
made by singers and speakers with an occasional violinist . This is to
be a **[serious program]{.underline}** with remarks to stimulate the
uninitiated in music\'s beauties and it is a pleasant prospect to think
that in the future perhaps an artist\'s tours may be made from their
very own music room. Recital will be heard from coast to coast

![](media/image6.png){width="4.721428258967629in"
height="3.4214282589676293in"}

The first radio recital was transmitted from an office temporarily made
into a studio at WGI, Medford Hillside, Mass. The walls were hung with
blankets and then covered with wrapping paper for acoustics. The sound
was caught by the large megaphone which at the time of the concert was
at the extreme end of the sounding board of the piano. Although the
broadcasting was rather crudely arranged, this music was heard in Ohio
and. (**Radio Broadcast, 1922. Volume 1, page 225. Random Observations
on running a radio station. HM Taylor.)**

Her first live recital broadcast was heard by over 35,000 with listeners
from Canada to Texas on Nov 1st 1921 at station WGI, Medford, MA and a
photo of that broadcast is in the National Library. She was a regular on
New England radio stations, giving almost weekly concerts throughout the
1920s. She would have been well-known, a radio "star".

A selection of her \>50 recordings

-   Played by Dai Buell Duo-Art  Toccata in A. 1924 \#63291-F AMPICO
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1I0levhVvy4>

-   Played by Dai Buell Duo-Art \# 72539 Released 9/28 from Sonata in E

    Flat, trans by Zadora (J.S.Bach)
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6BLE_XZQjT0>

-   2 Beethoven: 6 Variations \"Nel Cor Piu Non Mi Sento\", Mme Dai
    Buell in 1924, on Ampico 63673
    <https://soundcloud.com/veikko-viljanen/beethoven-6-variations-nel-cor-piu-non-mi-sento-mme-dai-buell-in-1924-on-ampico-63673>

-   Papillon (Grieg); Br\'er Rabbit (Macdowell) - Dai Buell
    <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TUzn2TxFUDg>

-   Many other on youtube
    https://www.youtube.com/results?search\_query=Ampico+Dai+buell

Reviews of Miss Buell\'s recordings were highly regard, of her first
recording \"Toccata\" by Paradies, stated "It is a most impressive
revelation of the personality capturing power of this incomparable,
re-enacting piano. The spirited performance of this composition, so
replete in rhythmic crystalline- colored charm, makes the hearer happier
for having experienced it and Ampico owners have another gem awaiting
them. ".

Dai Buell's campaign for married women's professional rights (preceding the marriage bar)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

She married Audley Earl Greenridge in 1918 but kept her marriage a
secret for six years later until she established her career. After she
announced her marriage, she was not silent in her displeasure that the
public treated single and married professional women
differently. Instead she did a full-page interview with the Boston Globe
on Sunday in 1924, championing married professional women.  She stated
that \"opportunities for success" were fewer for married women and
remarked that well-known successful artists tended to get married
\"after success was theirs\".   She recognized that \"the public
doesn\'t \"give a rap\" whether a young man artist is or isn\'t
married.\" She said she could \"look back upon this six years of privacy
with infinite satisfaction", during that time she was married, but the
public and colleagues thought and treated her like she was a single
women.

She stood against stereotyping and culture bias \"an Inherited attitude
that has come down the centuries\".

She hoped her public stance would prove that married women should be
allowed to pursue professional careers. In articles (Boston Globe in Oct
26, and Nov 2, in 1924) she was hopeful for married professional women
and "merrily chanted" that "**I\'ve proved it\'s absurd\... I hope
they\'ll learn that marriage adds rather than detracts from an artist\'s
powers\".** At that time it was becoming socially acceptable for middle-
and upper- class women to enter college, and a growing number woman
began to combine career and family. Though women got the vote, there was
growing unrest about married women taking professional jobs from married
men (or single women). Marriage bar laws were widely enforced in the
interwar years in the USA, Europe, and Australia, Canada. These laws
barred married women from well-paid professional jobs and were adopted
by firms, school boards and health professions. Hundreds of thousands of
married women were banned from starting a career or forced from their
careers upon marriage.  By the late 1920s, approximately 60% of cities
and towns nationally did not employ married women as new teachers, and
half of these communities did not retain single teachers who married. In
1932, the Economy Act of 1932 (Section 213) included a section that
required the government to fire one member of each married couple
working in government. When repealed in 1937, the New York
Times reported at the time, only 154 out of about 1,600 government
workers who lost their jobs---most women---got their jobs back.
Discrimination of professional married woman persisted through the end
of the Depression. In 1936, only 15 percent of respondents answered
"yes" to a poll in Fortune Magazine asking "Do you believe that women
should have a full-time job outside the home?" Marriage bars existed in
several countries until the 1970s.

(Marriage was announced in NY times 6 years after wedding OCT. 27, 1924

https://www.nytimes.com/1924/10/27/archives/dai-buell-secretly-wed-pianist-reveals-her-marriage-to-a-e.html)

What was Dai Buell's dream ?
----------------------------

During an interview with her home-town newspaper (Logansport
Pharos-Tribune), when asked about her hopes and ambitions, she replied
**\" I hope to play the piano so well as to attract vast audiences. My
ambition is to widen the appeal of the pianoforte to American
audiences."**

### Summary

My research discovered the following;

-   145 warren, widely known as the Aloha Bungalow.

-   The house was custom designed for Miss Dai Buell by her uncle
    William Lee Church in 1916. It was in Homes and Gardens, numerous
    other national and international press, and even in adverts for
    Steinway Pianos

-   She was a world-famous concert pianist renowned nationally,
    internationally

-   Dai Buell was an early advocate & led colleagues to adopt radio

-   She gave the world\'s first complete piano recital by radio,
    listened to by \>35,000 people nationally and international on Nov
    1st 1921.

-   On Oct. 2, 1931, she repeated history by giving the world\'s first
    complete concert by television.

-   She has a significant collection of music recording from the 1920s,
    1930s, which are still available (youtube, soundcloud etc)

-   She made significant contributions to Newton, hosting annual May Day
    community festivities

-   She campaigned for rights for married professional women before the
    marriage bar became widespread.

Appendix: Photos. 
==================

Photos of Music Room. 1918 (National Magazine Vol 47:266) 
----------------------------------------------------------

**27 foot in height with sunken floor and seaweed insulated walls.**

![](media/image7.png){width="4.090908792650919in"
height="3.2954549431321083in"}

Photos of (Intact) Music room 2018 from permit application to Newton historical commission
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

![](media/image8.png){width="2.7507294400699913in"
height="3.549785651793526in"}

Photos of House exterior (1918) 
--------------------------------

1918 (From Homes & Garden Article)
![](media/image9.png){width="4.986680883639545in"
height="3.9843755468066493in"}

**[Photos of House exterior (1940 )]{.underline}** 1940 (**National
Register** \#
[[\#90000112]{.underline}](https://npgallery.nps.gov/AssetDetail/NRIS/90000112)
dated due to the Red Cross sign in window.

![](media/image10.png){width="5.067708880139983in"
height="2.9254090113735782in"}

**[Photos of House Exterior (1990)]{.underline}**

1990 (**National Register** \#
[[\#90000112]{.underline}](https://npgallery.nps.gov/AssetDetail/NRIS/90000112))![](media/image11.png){width="4.192708880139983in"
height="3.0370253718285216in"}

**[Photos of House exterior (2018)]{.underline}**

2018 (extracted from permit application to Newton Historical
commission).

![](media/image12.png){width="4.793029308836395in"
height="2.4531255468066493in"}

Appendix: Images of Articles cited
----------------------------------

### National Magazine, May 1918, Vol XLVII, No. 6. describes her humble beginnings , grit and determination to succeed

<https://play.google.com/books/reader?id=4NROAQAAMAAJ&pg=GBS.PA266>

![](media/image13.png){width="6.5in" height="5.602777777777778in"}

[[Boston
Post]{.underline}](https://www.newspapers.com/browse/US/Massachusetts/Boston/Boston%20Post_2068),
[[09 Jan 1921,
Sun]{.underline}](https://www.newspapers.com/browse/US/Massachusetts/Boston/Boston%20Post_2068/1921/01/09),
[[Page 41]{.underline}](https://www.newspapers.com/image/72131623/)

![](media/image14.png){width="6.5in" height="6.888888888888889in"}

https://www.newspapers.com/clip/16253984/aloha\_bungalow\_dai\_buell\_1921/

### Musical Courier, Volume 75. Sep 13th 1917

![](media/image2.jpeg){width="7.4930522747156605in"
height="5.692708880139983in"}

**Musical Courier, Volume 75, Sep 13th 1917**

**https://books.google.com/books?id=wew6AQAAMAAJ&pg=RA10-PA32**

Text

Temperament creates an atmosphere and stimulates the artist Nature has
abundantly endowed Dai Buell with temperament and the photographs
accompanying this article show that she lives in a thoroughly artistic
atmosphere Her residence at Newton Mass is a charming one story bungalow
of the Denver type the exterior walls of which are of moss green
shingles and the roof of red terra cotta tile The columns of the porch
as well as the pier carrying the lawn light are of dark tapestry brick
The trim is a delicate primrose color equivalent to a light cream
carrying the faintest suggestion of green The bungalow being of one
story necessarily covers a large ground area It follows that the central
portion is débarred from external windows and it has therefore been set
apart for a most charming music room in which the day lighting is from
large triangular windows of amber cathedral glass in the two gables The
music room not only extends clear to the peak of the roof but the floor
is depressed two feet below the general level the total height being
twenty seven feet This is relieved and the acoustic properties conserved
by drawing in the walls to form a covered gallery fourteen feet above
the floor. The space above the gallery forms a miniature art gallery The
arrangement of the bungalow is such that the portion used for
entertaining forms essentially one large room but with sufficient
demarcation to set apart the different functions In the view looking out
from the music room the main entrance is in the center opening into the
foyer hall The living room and the dining room are on the right and left
respectively A sufficient delimitation is afforded by the arrangement of
the columns The living room is finished in mahogany and the foyer The
music room showing the lighting arrangement and the miniature art
gallery Dai Buell\'s home at Newton Mass and dining room in the rich
warm natural tone of gum wood The wall decorations are also in a
corresponding color tone so that the effect is that of a welcoming tor
diality The decorative treatment of the music room how ever is such as
to frankly set it apart as a specialist formal room somewhat classic in
its severity The wood work is in chestnut and the high dado is in canvas
with the panels set out in beading The plaster is rough to and the
entire room is finished in a cool smoky pearl with which the oxidized
silver lighting brackets beautifully has monize Plants and trailing
vines on the parape of the gallery will in the winter time give a touch
of ther and ease to the otherwise formal lines Miss Buell gives a series
of salons during each so on which occasions when in recital form about
onto dred and fifty guests can find comfortable seating on the main
floor without encroaching on the music foom To low level of the piano
enables most of the audience to the keyboard work of the artist at close
range An interesting feature is the means used for insulating the sound
of the piano from the sleeping rooms and domes tic portions of the house
For this purpose the wall of the music room is double strictly a room
within a The space between the walls is packed with seaweed as a
soundproof material and the walls themselves have to point of connection
except at the floor and a slight tie the level of the gallery The piano
is therefore practical inaudible in other portions of the house in conso
0 this arrangement Quiet is still further assured by to ering the floor
with a thick cork carpet whose color is a neutral greenish gray In this
charming home Miss Buell is preparing her grams for the forthcoming
season all of which will to new and unhackneyed works most of them heard
in this country view from the music room showing the foyer hall

**[Homes and Garden. Oct 1918]{.underline}** Vol 34. No 4. Pg 41

\"A bungalow with a real salon."

![](media/image1.jpg){width="5.9527548118985125in"
height="8.192708880139982in"}

**[Homes and Garden. Oct 1918]{.underline}** Vol 34. No 4. Pg 41

"A bungalow with a real salon"

![](media/image15.png){width="6.5in" height="5.791666666666667in"}

[[https://books.google.com/books?id=j1HjFUIVBEwC&pg=RA10-PA9]{.underline}](https://books.google.com/books?id=j1HjFUIVBEwC&pg=RA10-PA9)

![](media/image16.jpg){width="4.046041119860018in"
height="4.112159886264217in"}

![](media/image17.png){width="2.1366076115485564in"
height="3.4399617235345583in"}![](media/image18.png){width="2.136613079615048in"
height="3.35168416447944in"}![](media/image19.png){width="2.0839041994750658in"
height="3.305929571303587in"}

![](media/image20.jpg){width="4.372916666666667in"
height="8.704545056867891in"}

![](media/image21.png){width="6.5in" height="7.041666666666667in"}

**1920 Music News, Volume 12, Issue 1**

https://books.google.com/books?id=SndFAQAAMAAJ&pg=RA14-PA26

![](media/image22.png){width="4.877624671916011in"
height="8.887002405949257in"}

![](media/image23.png){width="4.5431430446194225in"
height="6.393346456692913in"}

International Who\'s who in Music and Musical Gazetteer

Published 1918

![](media/image24.png){width="5.942708880139983in"
height="9.42476377952756in"}

MacDowell Club

Musical America, Volume 31

Nov 15th 1919

https://books.google.com/books?id=gNtFAQAAMAAJ&pg=PA58&lpg=PA58&dq

![](media/image25.png){width="2.1596981627296588in"
height="4.499998906386701in"}![](media/image26.png){width="2.325in"
height="1.7666666666666666in"}

![](media/image27.jpg){width="3.4875in" height="4.5in"}

First ever piano recital wireless broadcast to \>35,000 people
nationally and internationally.

(Nov 2nd 1921)

Photo from George Grantham Bain collection, Library of Congress.\
https://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/2012649426

![](media/image28.png){width="6.981683070866142in"
height="6.668402230971129in"}

AMICA News Bulltein,

Nov/Dec **[1990,]{.underline}** Vol 26, Number 6, page
256![](media/image29.png){width="6.765625546806649in"
height="5.56212489063867in"}

Full text of cited articles
===========================

Homes and Garden 1918
---------------------

**A BUNGALOW with a REAL SALON\
The Home of Miss Dai Buell, Pianist, at Newton Center, Massachusetts.
Designed by William L Church, Esq**\
\
The plan is arranged around the **music room**, which carries through to
the roof. A single hallway serves the bathroom and all the bedrooms,
making for practical living convenience and economy of space\
\
The **unusual height of the music room permits a balcony below the peak
windows.** This height has been secured partly by **sinking the floor**
below the ground level. The walls are perfectly deadened.

The exterior shows a clever adoption of the bungalow idea to a structure
containing interior features usually possible only in a full sized
house. The walls, floors and ceilings are insulated with **seaweed**
resulting in winter warmth and summer coolness.

Boston Post, 09 Jan 1921, Sun, Page 41
--------------------------------------

**\"Double walls of studio make soundless music room\".**

\"The room is so ingeniously constructed that one can play on the piano
and still not be heard in other portions of the house \".

\"**Dai Buell, the well know Newton Center pianist**, has the
distinction of having in her home the only known \"**soundless music
room**\" in existence.

Here the artist can work through the still hours of the night without
disturbing the sleep of other members of the household. The music room
is literally a room within a room, the double walls being packed with
**seaweed,** making the piano absolutely inaudible in other portions of
the house. The lighting is from large triangular windows of amber
cathedral glass in the gables at either end of the **balcony**. The
illustration shown of the foyer hall and the **depression of the floor**
in the music room which gives a **height of 27 feet.** This is relieved
and the **acoustical** properties preserved by drawing the walls to form
a covered **gallery 14 feet** above the floor. The classical simplicity
carried to the columns instead of the draperies insures acoustical
perfection\".

Musical Courier, Volume 75 Sep 13th 1917 
-----------------------------------------

**"Dai Buell\'s Handsome New Bungalow" **

"Temperament creates an atmosphere and stimulates the artist Nature has
abundantly endowed **Dai Buell** with temperament and the photographs
accompanying this article show that she lives in a thoroughly artistic
atmosphere. Her residence at **Newton Mass is a charming one story
bungalow** of the Denver type the exterior walls of which are of moss
green shingles and the roof of red terra cotta tile. The columns of the
porch as well as the pier carrying the lawn light are of dark tapestry
brick. The trim is a delicate primrose color equivalent to a light cream
carrying the faintest suggestion of green.

The bungalow being of one story necessarily covers a large ground area
It follows that the central portion is débarred from external windows
and it has therefore been set apart for a most charming music room in
which the day lighting is from large triangular windows of amber
cathedral glass in the two gables. The **music room** not only extends
clear to the peak of the roof but the floor is **depressed two feet**
below the general level the total height being **twenty seven feet.**
This is relieved and the **acoustic properties** conserved by drawing in
the walls to form a covered gallery fourteen feet above the floor. The
space above the **gallery** forms a miniature art gallery.

The arrangement of the bungalow is such that the portion used for
entertaining forms essentially one large room but with sufficient
demarcation to set apart the different functions In the view looking out
from the music room the main entrance is in the center opening into the
foyer hall The living room and the dining room are on the right and left
respectively A sufficient delimitation is afforded by the arrangement of
the columns.

The living room is finished in mahogany and the foyer The music room
showing the lighting arrangement and the **miniature art gallery Dai
Buell\'s home at Newton Mass** and dining room in the rich warm natural
tone of gum wood. The wall decorations are also in a corresponding color
tone so that the effect is that of a welcoming tor diality The
decorative treatment of the music room however is such as to frankly set
it apart as a specialist formal room somewhat classic in its severity.
The wood work is in chestnut and the high dado is in canvas with the
panels set out in beading. The plaster is rough to and the entire room
is finished in a cool smoky pearl with which the oxidized silver
lighting brackets beautifully has monize. Plants and trailing vines on
the parapet of the gallery will in the winter time give a touch of cheer
and ease to the otherwise formal lines

Miss Buell gives a series of salons during each so on which occasions
when in recital form about onto dred and fifty guests can find
comfortable seating on the main floor without encroaching on the music
form. To low level of the piano enables most of the audience to the
keyboard work of the artist at close range.

An interesting feature is the means used for insulating the sound of the
piano from the sleeping rooms and domestic portions of the house For
this purpose the wall of the music room is double strictly a room within
a room.

**The space between the walls is packed with seaweed as a soundproof
material** and the walls themselves have no point of connection except
at the floor and a slight tie the level of the gallery. The piano is
therefore practical inaudible in other portions of the house in
consequence of this arrangement. Quiet is still further assured by to
entering the floor with a thick cork carpet whose color is a neutral
greenish gray.

In this charming home Miss Buell is preparing her programs for the
forthcoming season all of which will be new and unhackneyed works, most
of them heard in this country"

Indianapolis Star, Aug 1932
---------------------------

Photo of Dai Buell Graces Cover Page

**\'August Issue of the Musician Compliments Hoosier Concert Pianist. **

The August issue of the Musician, published in New York city, has for
its, cover page reproduction of a striking photograph of Dai Buell,
former Indiana woman, who has attained first-rank both in the United
States and abroad as a pianist. She was born in Fort Wayne and later
lived in Logansport. She is well known in musical circles in
Indianapolis. Indianapolis. Her home now is in Boston, Mass.

The musical magazine: 
----------------------

\"Among the outstanding American concert pianists Dai Buellis one of few
who established herself securely in the favor of music critics and
concert public in her own country , before attempting to court critical
judgment in the European musical strongholds. Less than ten years ago
she gave recitals in London, Paris and various German cities, not only
achieving notable success as a pianist, pianist, but scoring heavily for
American American composers whose works she introduced introduced to
foreign audiences.

Wide Following in US 
---------------------

\"In this country Miss Buell has earned a wide following in educational
educational circles because of the significance significance of her
programs and her highly highly enlightening explanatory remarks in
connection with programs of historical historical interest.

\"Another foreign concert tour in 1925 renewed the excellent impressions
impressions of 1923 and found her returning returning to distinguished
European concert concert halls as to old friends. The next season was
one of brillance with a large number of formal recitals recitals and
causerie-conccrts. In 1928 she appeared as soloist with the Boston
Boston symphony orchestra in a poetic performance of the Chopin
\'Concerto in F Minor\' with Serge Kouosevitzky conducting. Then
followed a tour in Europe including most of the important important
musical centers of Germany, Austria, France, Holland and England.
England.

\"On Nov. 1, 1921, Miss Buell gave what was recognized as being the
world\'s first complete recital by radio. On Oct. 2, 1931, she repeated
history by giving the world\'s first complete concert by television, as
a feature of the opening of the raido show.\"

First Television performance from The Boston Globe Thursday, October 1, 1931 Page 31 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/431239182/

"For the first time in a public exhibition in New England a real
demonstration of television is promised. Although the status of
television Is still a controversial\' subject, It is admitted by those
who take the most conservative views that television is not remotely
removed. Recognizing this fact, Sheldon H. Fairbanks, founder and
director of the Boston Radio Shows, has allotted space for the
demonstration of television this year so that the public may view the
art as it is and draw its own conclusions. One hall of the show will
house the television demonstration which will be put on by the Shortwave
and Television Laboratories of Boston. The demonstration will be devoted
to the reception on the opening evening of a program from 8 to 8:30 and
another from 9 to 9:30 o clock. The transmissions will be made from the
company's laboratories on Brookline av, Eoston, the sound being
transmitted by Station WIXAU and the images by Station WIXAV. Miss Dai
Buell, concert pianist who gave the first concert radio recital in Ne5V
England over Station WGX back in November, 1921, has been elected to
take a leading part in the epochal broadcast scheduled for this evening

THE BOSTON SUNDAY GLOBE NOVEMBER 2, 1924. PIANIST, SECRETLY WED, SAYS AUDIENCES COOL TO MATRONS 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dai Buell Berates Fickleness of Concert Public And Declares Marriage
Most Important To Artists e By GARDNER JACKSON Is a young concer: artist
less appealing to the public when she is married? \"Yes,\" say Dai
Buell, the pianist, \"when the artist is a young woman in this
country.\" The same is not true of young men artists, nor of foreign
artists, be they men or women. While Dai Buell is convinced this is so,
she is equally convinced it is an absurd notion on the part of the
public. And now she merrily chants, \"I\'ve proved it\'s absurd.\" By
which she means that success has come her Buell was asked If she has
known of marriages of young women artists. \"Yes,\" she said, \"I have
known of two or three, and I\'ve known of the fatal results of some of
them, too.\" Then she added quickly, \"Now, I\'m not talking about any
of these trial marriages. I don\'t care for any of that high-falutin
stuff.\" In addition \'to the effect on her public of keeping the
marriage secret, she delighted In the privacy it gave her. \'I have that
sense of privacy characteristic of the English,\" she declared. \"And I
look back upon this six years of privacy with infinite satisfaction.\'\'
\"My managers,\" she went on, \"have often said to me seriously, \"You
know, why should we work hard for you and the rest of our feminine
artists? leaves off. It holds the great things of Hfe together.\" She
then explained that the music of great artists is an expression of their
lives. \"How can the great works be understood?\" she asked, \"If you
haven\'t lived fully? The great artists lived fully. The young unmarried
girl playing before an audience is Just In a stage. She has not lived
fully. She - cannot understand all.\" X Dai Buell said that practically
none of her managers knew about her marriage. In fact, the careful
guardianship of the secret by her mother, with whom she lives in Newton
Center, and by her uncle kept the secret surprisingly close. The pianist
plans to retain

The Boston Globe from Boston, Massachusetts · page 67Sunday, November 2, 1924
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

https://www.newspapers.com/newspage/430942196/

Dai Buell \"attained first rank in the United States and abroad as a
pianist\". Furthermore on Nov 1st, 1921 she performs the world's first
full musical recital on radio, and Oct 2nd

1931 again made history, by performing the first concert on

television. (from The Indianapolis Star,· 11 Sep 1932, Sun · Page 30,

article attached).

### Annual May Day celebration at the \"Aloha Bungalow"

### The newton graphic. VOL. XLVIII--- NO. 29 NEWTON MASS., **FRI. APRIL 2. 1920.** 

([[https://archive.org/stream/NewtonGraphicApril\_1920/1920-04-Apr\_djvu.txt]{.underline}](https://archive.org/stream/NewtonGraphicApril_1920/1920-04-Apr_djvu.txt))

> \"Miss Dai Buell, pianist, is to give a reception to her friends on
> Saturday, May 1st. at **[Aloha Bungalow, 145 Warren
> street.]{.underline}** \"

### The Newton Graphic . VOL. LIII. --- NO 34 . NEWTON. MASS..**FRI. MAY 1, 1925 **

([[https://archive.org/stream/192505May/1925-05-May\_djvu.txt]{.underline}](https://archive.org/stream/192505May/1925-05-May_djvu.txt))

> \"**[Aloha Bungalow, 145 Warren street]{.underline}**, Newton Centre,
> the home of Miss Dai Buell, the well known pianist, will the first
> time since those delightful \"May Days" which for many years were a
> tradition in musical circles.\"

### The Newton Graphic . Vol. LIX--- No. 35 .Newton, Mass **FRI, MAY 1, 1931**

([[https://archive.org/stream/NewtonGraphicMay\_1931/1931-05-May\_djvu.txt]{.underline}](https://archive.org/stream/NewtonGraphicMay_1931/1931-05-May_djvu.txt))

**MAY DAY AT ALOHA BUNGALOW**

> As is her annual custom **[Dai Buell, well-known concert pianist,
> whose home, Aloha Bungalow, is at 145 Warren street, Newton
> Centre]{.underline}**, will keep open house to her friends this
> afternoon and evening. As a very young girl she set apart this day for
> her friends and has maintained the practice unless away on concert
> tours.
>
> A program of dancing and music has been arranged lasting well into the
> evening. There will be traditional folk dances, and a Maypole dance
> followed by several musical selections by artists of distinction, such
> as Mrs. Abby Conley Rice and MIbb Dorothy George, soloists. Mrs.
> Georges His, violinist, and Miss Artiss de Volt, harpist. Several
> pianists, pupils of Dai Buell, will intersperse the selections by
> these artists with contrasting numbers. Miss Ethel deMllle as
> trumpeter will serve as announcer.
>
> Mrs. Oliver H. P. Rodman is in charge of the tea table, assisted by
> Baroness von Tippelskirch, and Mesdames Wm. H. Brennan. Reginald
> Heath, Alexander Steinert. Frederick S. Whitwell, Wm. A. Gaston, Wm.
> C. Bray, and Raymond Huntington. The Misses Violet James, Cornelia
> Wing, Muriel Ames. Martha Peterschen, Margaret Reeves. Ethel deMille
> and Helen Mumford will be at the punch bowl and the Misses Jane Cobb
> and Elizabeth McKey will be the cigarette girls.
>
> Girls with garlanded baskets assisting with serving will be the Misses
> Jane and Peggy Burgess, Katherine Niles. Elizabeth Huntington. Anne
> Kendall, Betty Cleverdon, Barbara Squier, Anne Stratton, Helen Dane,
> Helen Boyd, Grace McLellan. Virginia Lichtner, Priscilla Young and
> Lillian Taylor. General dancing will continue until late in the
> evening. \"

Dai Buell to Give Bach Anniversary Program 
-------------------------------------------

A large audience gathered in Aeolia her 18 to hear Dai Buell in her
Grieg program and was dismissed after the first number on account of the
sudden illness of the artist Anouncement was made from the platform that
the gram would be given later in the season but this now been postponed
until next fall because of the possibility of finding an open date. Miss
Buell\'s illness was incorrectly reported as pneumonia for as a matter

Music News, Volume 13, Issue 1

1921

Obituary/Burial Cemetery 
-------------------------

Both daughter, mother buried in same family plot \#24

Newton Cemetery Burial Search Details

Grave Information:

Name: CATHERINE B. BUELL

Date of Birth: n/a

Date of Death: 05/20/1932

Age: n/a

Location Details:

The following is the reference information for finding the location
within Newton Cemetery:

Section: I

Range : n/a

Family Lot : 24

Grave Information:

Name: CATHERINE B. BUELL

Date of Birth: n/a

Date of Death: 05/20/1932

Age: n/a

Location Details:

The following is the reference information for finding the location
within Newton Cemetery:

Section: I

Range : n/a

Family Lot : 24

BUELL, Dai (Mrs. Audley Earl Greenidge), pianist : b. Ft. Wayne, Ind.,
d. Rufus Raymond and Katherine Julia

Dai Buell born 12-11-1898 IN died. 7-9-1939 MA, married. 10-25-1918
Audley Earl Greenidge m. Oct. 25, 1918, Audley Earl Greenidge. No
children. She became an internationally- known pianist, a graduate of
the New England Conservatory of Music.

William Lee Church, b. Mar. 25, 1850. He was on the faculty of Lehigh
University; a civil engineer of note and author of books on scientific
engineering. He d. May 25, 1927. Buried Newton Center, Mass. He m. Oct.
9, 1872, Sara Margaret Beckwith. She b. June 22, 1851, at Peru, N. Y.
She d. Oct. 8, 1922, Newton Center, Mass., dau. of Edgar and Ann (Ashby)
Beckwith of Troy, N. Y.

related to Sir Humphrey Davy, inventor,

http://freepages.books.rootsweb.ancestry.com/\~pickensarchive/text/buell.txt

Rufus Raymond27 Buell (Adoniram Judson26, Eli25, Thomas24, Joseph23,
Samuel22, Samuel21, William20, Robert Beville19, Robert (Buell)18
Beville, William (Bevyle)17, Robert16 Bevyle, William15 Beville,
William14, Richard13 Beuyll, Thomas (Bevyll)12 Beville, Robert11, Robert
(DeBeyvill)10 Beuyll, Richard DeWelles9 Bevill, Robert8 Beuyll,
Richard7, Robert6 Bevyll, Richard5 Beyuill, Richard4, Robert3 Beuuill,
Richard2 DeBauvill, Robert1 De Bauvill) was born 29 Aug 1856 in Salt
Creek, Ohio.

He married Catherine Julia Brereton 19 Jan 1891 in Fort Wayne, Indiana.
She was born 20 Apr 1865 in Hamilton, Ohio, and died 20 May 1932 at age
of 67 in Newton Center, Massachusetts. Her Mother's parents were William
Brereton and Jane Brereton (born Richardson).. William was born in
Hamilton, Ohio/Hamilton, Butler Co., OH.

Jane was born in Hamilton, Ohio.

Children of Rufus Buell and Catherine Brereton are:

Clark28 Buell, born 1892 in Fort Wayne, Indiana.. he resided at New
Castle, PA, R.D.2. He had no children, states Phyilis Davey Platt. Clark
(Clark Buell, 1892 - 1955) passed away in After 1955, at age 63 at death
place, Pennsylvania.

Raymond Judson Buell, born 09 Dec 1894 in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

Dia Buell, born 11 Dec 1898 in Fort Wayne, Indiana; died 09 Jul 1939 in
Newton Center, Massachusetts. She married Audley Earl Greenidge 25 Oct
1918; born Abt. 1900. No children She became an internationally-known
pianist, a graduate of the new England Conservatory of music. She played
with the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic
Orchestra. She played in 1921 the first piano recital on radio ever held
in America.\"

Additional References 
======================

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dai\_Buell

Ginny Billings and Bob Billings, The Billings Rollography (Rock Soup
1990): 71.

\"Affairs and Folks: The Art and Personality of Dai Buell\" National
Magazine (May 1918): 266-267.

\"Former Local Girl to Establish Unique Record in Musical World\"
Logansport Pharos-Tribune (October 31, 1921): 3. via Newspapers.com

\"A Newcomer Among Our Pianists\" Musical America (December 23, 1916):
23.

\"Dai Buell Lauded in New York Recital\" Musical Courier (December 15,
1921): 53.

\"Miss Dai Buell Sails to Conquer Europe Saturday\" Boston Daily Globe
(April 4, 1923): 9.

\^ Jump up to:a b \"Dai Buell, Noted Pianist, Dead at Newton Centre\"
Daily Boston Globe (July 10, 1939): 11.

\"Recitalist Adds History to Music in Series of \'Pianotalks\'\"
Christian Science Monitor (March 26, 1924): 5.

\"W. H. L. \"Dai Buell Delights Audience in Newtonville, Mass.\" Musical
America (April 28, 1917): 46.

\"Musicale by Miss Dai Buell Pleases\" Boston Daily Globe (December 7,
1922): 13.

\"Benefit Concert at Symphony Hall\" Daily Boston Globe (December 20,
1929): 33.

\"Dai Buell to Send Message\" Musical Courier (October 27, 1921): 27.

\"Dai Buell and Braggiotti Sisters Charm\" Musical Courier (December 8,
1921): 35.

\"Double Walls of Studio to Make \'Soundless Music Room\'\" Boston Post
(January 9, 1921): 41. via Newspapers.com

Listing of Scanned Piano Rolls, International Association of Mechanical
Music Preservationists (IAMMP).

\"Dai Buell Secretly Wed\" New York Times (October 27, 1924): 19.

\"Dai Buell, Pianist and Writer on Music; Had Given Concerts Here and
Abroad; Succumbs in Boston\" New York Times (July 10, 1939): 23.

More references

Marriage announced in NY times 6 years after wedding OCT. 27, 1924

https://www.nytimes.com/1924/10/27/archives/dai-buell-secretly-wed-pianist-reveals-her-marriage-to-a-e.html

[[https://www.revolvy.com/topic/Dai-Buell]{.underline}](https://www.revolvy.com/topic/Dai-Buell)

First concert in NYC - 1920 Music News, Volume 12, Issue 1

<https://books.google.com/books?id=SndFAQAAMAAJ&pg=RA14-PA26>

The Music Magazine-musical Courier, Volume 83. October 27, 1921
https://books.google.com/books?id=0PM6AQAAMAAJ&lpg=RA10-PA53&ots=GddjSRhFcL&dq=Dai%20Buell%20piano&pg=RA13-PA27\#v=onepage&q&f=false

Logansport Pharos-Tribune (Logansport, Indiana) · 31 Oct 1921, Mon ·
Page 3 <https://www.newspapers.com/clip/16253743/dai_buell_1921/> Local
Indiana papers announced the broadcast Note Radio = Radiophone, wireless
telephone

AMRAD "radiophone" station

Advert 1922

Photo from George Grantham Bain collection, Library of Congress.\
<https://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/2012649426>

The musical event of the week was the concert given Monday evening by
the members of the West Newton Music Club, at the residence of Mrs.
Norman Marshall on Chestnut street. West Newton.\
\
It was the last of the season, and was attended by a large company of
music lovers from the Newtons. A select program of six numbers was
presented under the direction of Miss Dai Buell, and the audience was
liberal in show'ing Its appreciation of\
each number; it included works by the celebrated composers. Strauss.
Mozart, Sibella, Chopin, Schumann, Vedi-Liszt, Nevln, Lohr, Saint-Saens.
Davidoff, Loomis and Ronald.\
\
The opening number, \"Allegro from Sonate.\" was excellently rendered by
Miss Alma I .a Palme, \'cellist of the Julia Pickard Trio, with piano
ac-

https://archive.org/stream/NewtonGraphicMay\_1916/1916-05-May\_djvu.txt

The National Magazine - Volume 47 - Page 266

https://books.google.com/books?id=4NROAQAAMAAJ&lpg=PA266&ots=mk1JqBf\_-n&dq=Dai%20Buell%20piano&pg=PA266\#v=onepage&q=Dai%20Buell%20piano&f=false

**Membership of club**

MacDowell Club. Chromatic Club, Peoples Choral Union of Boston

The Musical Blue Book of America, Volume 4 1919

https://books.google.com/books?id=RA0QAAAAYAAJ

American women (1936) https://books.google.com/books?id=cz8LAQAAIAAJ
BUELL, Dai (Mrs. Audley Earl Greenidge), pianist : b. Ft. Wayne, Ind.,
d. Rufus Raymond and Katherine Julia.

International Who\'s who in Music and Musical Gazetteer Published 1918
